Question 10 - How to find the OOPS concept used in the automation framework?

#interviewquestions #interviewtips 

💯 1. ABSTRACTION

Abstraction is the methodology of hiding the implementation of internal details and showing the functionality to the users.
In the Page Object Model design pattern, we write locators (such as id, name, XPath, etc.,) and the methods in a Page Class. We utilize these locators in tests but we can’t see the implementation of the methods. We hide the implementations of the locators from the tests.
In Java, abstraction is achieved by interfaces and abstract classes. Using interfaces, we can achieve 100% abstraction.

💯 2. INHERITANCE
The mechanism in Java by which one class acquires the properties (instance variables) and functionalities of another class is known as Inheritance.
We create a Base Class in the Automation Framework to initialize the WebDriver interface, WebDriver waits, Property files, Excels, etc., in the Base Class.
We extend the Base Class to other classes such as Tests and Utility Class.
Here we extend one class (Base Class like WebDriver Interface) into another class (like Tests, Utility Class) is known as Inheritance.

💯 3. POLYMORPHISM
Polymorphism allows us to perform a task in multiple ways.
A combination of overloading and overriding is known as Polymorphism. We will see both overloading and overriding below.

💯 3.1 METHOD OVERLOADING
We use Implicit Wait in Selenium. Implicit wait is an example of overloading. In Implicit wait, we use different time stamps such as SECONDS, MINUTES, HOURS, etc.
Action class in TestNG is also an example of overloading.
Assert class in TestNG is also an example of overloading.

💯 3.2 METHOD OVERRIDING
We use a method that was already implemented in another class by changing its parameters. To understand this you need to understand Overriding in Java.
Declaring a method in a child class that is already present in the parent class is called Method Overriding. Examples are get and navigate methods of different drivers in Selenium.
A class having multiple methods with the same name but different parameters is called a Method Overloading

💯 4. ENCAPSULATION
All the classes in a framework are an example of Encapsulation. In POM classes, we declare the data members using @FindBy and initialization of data members will be done using Constructor to utilize those in methods.
Encapsulation is a mechanism of binding code and data (variables) together in a single unit.

Share your view in Comment section

Which of the following is not an OOPS concept?
Encapsulation
Polymorphism
Exception
Abstraction